graphics_and_multimedia.md, before:

## Graphics and Multimedia

1. ### Slide Show

2. ### Bulk Picture Manipulator
Difficulty: Intermediate

This program will take in a directory of pictures and apply a certain effect to them whether it be reducing color count, changing its format, or alter file attributes. For something extra try to see if you can also create a system to tag them.

3. ### CD Burnig Application
Difficulty: Intermediate

Create a utility that simply burns data to a CD.

4. ### YouTube Downloader
Difficulty: Expert

 A program which can download videos to your hard drive from youtube.com. Save the files in various formats including FLV and AVI.

5. ### Signature Maker
Difficulty: Expert

Ever seen those web board posts where someone has a generated signature made up? See if you can make a program that allows the user to specify a background, text, colors and alignment to make their own signatures or userbars.

6. ### Screen Saver
Difficulty: Beginner

Make a screensaver program that will run while your computer sits idle. To make a simple one use some standard pictures and then for added complexity try a 3D object that spins around the screen and bounces off the sides.

7. ### Watermarking Application
Difficulty: Intermediate

Have some pictures you want copyright protected? Add your own logo or text lightly across the background so that no one can simply steal your graphics off your site. Make a program that will add this watermark to the picture.

8. ### Dominant Colors
Difficulty: Beginner

Develop a program that accepts an image either via the device's camera (if it has one) or a file dialog. Your program should intelligently determine three of the most dominant colors in the image and present it to the user. The dominant colors in this case are the colors that appear most in a given image. For added complexity, generate the RGB, HSB, CYMK and HEX color codes for each dominant color. Also you can add the ability to save the generated color palette with all the above information.

9. ### Resizer
Difficulty: Beginner

Develop a program that generates the mdpi, hdpi, xhdpi, xxhdpi, xxxhdpi versions of any given image that has its height equal to its width.
The dimensions for each screen density:
MDPI - 48px, HDPI - 72px, XHDPI - 96px, XXHDPI - 144px, XXHDPI - 192px. Note that the above sizes account for both the height and width of the image so 48px means height = 48px, width = 48px.

10. ### Import Picture and Save as Grayscale
Difficulty: Intermediate

Make a utility that sucks the color right out of an image and saves it. You could add more features including ability to adjust contrast, saturation, darkness, brightness and vignette effects etc.

11. ### Video Streamer
Difficulty: Expert

Try to create your own streaming video player.

12. ### Mind Mapper
Difficulty: Intermediate

A mind map is a graphical way to represent ideas and concepts. It is a visual thinking tool that helps structuring information, helping you to better analyze, comprehend, synthesize, recall and generate new ideas. Create a program that allows the user to put down ideas and quickly brainstorm how they are related into a mind map. The goal here is speed so let the user quickly write in an idea and drag it around in a visual map to show relationships.

13. ### Mp3 Player (and Other Formats)
Difficulty: Intermediate

A simple program for playing your favorite music files. It should have the ability to Play, Pause, Fast Forward, Rewind, Next, Previous, Repeat Once, Repeat Forever and Randomly Shuffle. For extra complexity see if you can add the ability to create playlists and an equalizer. You could also generate a Like/Dislike playlist by rating songs based on if a song is skipped or played to the end or if the volume is increased/decreased whilst the song is being played.

14. ### Music Rater
Difficulty: Intermediate

Create a music app that intelligently plays songs that the user would like based on a rating scheme where song skip or volume lowering means dislike and song full listen or volume increase means like.

15. ### Wallpaper Manager
Difficulty: Intermediate

Make a program which keeps track of your favorite wallpapers, changes them regularly and maybe even re-sizes them for your resolution (aka tiles one and stretches another).

16. ### Screen Capture Program
Difficulty: Intermediate

Make a utility that will capture screenshots. Add the ability to add arrows that would highlight relevant info in the screenshots. For added complexity, add the ability to stitch several screenshots together, crop, edit saturation, contrast and brightness etc.

17. ### Mandelbrot Set
Difficulty: Expert

Develop a program that creates a colored image of a Mandelbrot Set.

You can find more info on Mandelbrot sets here > https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mandelbrot_set

You can also take user input that defines how much to zoom into the image, where to zoom, as well as a custom equation.

Submitted by Erik Johansson

Commit message:

Add slide show idea in the graphics and multimedia

graphics_and_multimedia.md, after:

## Graphics and Multimedia

1. ### Slide Show
Difficulty: Intermediate

Make an application that shows various pictures in a slide show format. For extra complexity try adding various effects like fade in/out, star wipe and window blinds transitions.

2. ### Bulk Picture Manipulator
Difficulty: Intermediate

This program will take in a directory of pictures and apply a certain effect to them whether it be reducing color count, changing its format, or alter file attributes. For something extra try to see if you can also create a system to tag them.

3. ### CD Burnig Application
Difficulty: Intermediate

Create a utility that simply burns data to a CD.

4. ### YouTube Downloader
Difficulty: Expert

 A program which can download videos to your hard drive from youtube.com. Save the files in various formats including FLV and AVI.

5. ### Signature Maker
Difficulty: Expert

Ever seen those web board posts where someone has a generated signature made up? See if you can make a program that allows the user to specify a background, text, colors and alignment to make their own signatures or userbars.

6. ### Screen Saver
Difficulty: Beginner

Make a screensaver program that will run while your computer sits idle. To make a simple one use some standard pictures and then for added complexity try a 3D object that spins around the screen and bounces off the sides.

7. ### Watermarking Application
Difficulty: Intermediate

Have some pictures you want copyright protected? Add your own logo or text lightly across the background so that no one can simply steal your graphics off your site. Make a program that will add this watermark to the picture.

8. ### Dominant Colors
Difficulty: Beginner

Develop a program that accepts an image either via the device's camera (if it has one) or a file dialog. Your program should intelligently determine three of the most dominant colors in the image and present it to the user. The dominant colors in this case are the colors that appear most in a given image. For added complexity, generate the RGB, HSB, CYMK and HEX color codes for each dominant color. Also you can add the ability to save the generated color palette with all the above information.

9. ### Resizer
Difficulty: Beginner

Develop a program that generates the mdpi, hdpi, xhdpi, xxhdpi, xxxhdpi versions of any given image that has its height equal to its width.
The dimensions for each screen density:
MDPI - 48px, HDPI - 72px, XHDPI - 96px, XXHDPI - 144px, XXHDPI - 192px. Note that the above sizes account for both the height and width of the image so 48px means height = 48px, width = 48px.

10. ### Import Picture and Save as Grayscale
Difficulty: Intermediate

Make a utility that sucks the color right out of an image and saves it. You could add more features including ability to adjust contrast, saturation, darkness, brightness and vignette effects etc.

11. ### Video Streamer
Difficulty: Expert

Try to create your own streaming video player.

12. ### Mind Mapper
Difficulty: Intermediate

A mind map is a graphical way to represent ideas and concepts. It is a visual thinking tool that helps structuring information, helping you to better analyze, comprehend, synthesize, recall and generate new ideas. Create a program that allows the user to put down ideas and quickly brainstorm how they are related into a mind map. The goal here is speed so let the user quickly write in an idea and drag it around in a visual map to show relationships.

13. ### Mp3 Player (and Other Formats)
Difficulty: Intermediate

A simple program for playing your favorite music files. It should have the ability to Play, Pause, Fast Forward, Rewind, Next, Previous, Repeat Once, Repeat Forever and Randomly Shuffle. For extra complexity see if you can add the ability to create playlists and an equalizer. You could also generate a Like/Dislike playlist by rating songs based on if a song is skipped or played to the end or if the volume is increased/decreased whilst the song is being played.

14. ### Music Rater
Difficulty: Intermediate

Create a music app that intelligently plays songs that the user would like based on a rating scheme where song skip or volume lowering means dislike and song full listen or volume increase means like.

15. ### Wallpaper Manager
Difficulty: Intermediate

Make a program which keeps track of your favorite wallpapers, changes them regularly and maybe even re-sizes them for your resolution (aka tiles one and stretches another).

16. ### Screen Capture Program
Difficulty: Intermediate

Make a utility that will capture screenshots. Add the ability to add arrows that would highlight relevant info in the screenshots. For added complexity, add the ability to stitch several screenshots together, crop, edit saturation, contrast and brightness etc.

17. ### Mandelbrot Set
Difficulty: Expert

Develop a program that creates a colored image of a Mandelbrot Set.

You can find more info on Mandelbrot sets here > https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mandelbrot_set

You can also take user input that defines how much to zoom into the image, where to zoom, as well as a custom equation.

Submitted by Erik Johansson
